# https://www.reddit.com/r/h1b/comments/1svzcbc/laid_off_right_after_h1b_lottery_picked/

I was working in a late stage startup for about 2 years. I visited my country last month in March before the H1B lottery results came out. On 28th March I arrived in the US and I found out that my team had hired another MLE at the same level as me. I had no clue this was happening as they put out a quick role and hired someone who had been previously referred within a week. I got to know on the 30th March that my lottery was picked. After 2 weeks working in the company I got to know one day that for performance reasons I will be fired and within 15 mins all of my access was gone.

They have always been very harsh to me. Bombarding me with only tech debt work. Giving me work that didn't fit my role. The software department had declined support to my AI team. So I had to do data engineering , development and everything that they refused to do. But since I was on my Visa I did everything but constantly requested them for AI work that they very occasionally gave. Nobody in my own team wanted to do this work but since I had a Visa requirement I did all the tech debt work. I cleaned up various data pipelines that always kept failing and were finally fixed, for more than a year. These work also led to reaching all the work targets on time and our team gained back some respect.

But when the time came, when my lottery was finally picked, they snapped at me and hired someone else when I was not here and finally fired me on a performance basis. For a week when the new person was in the team my manager didn't give the slightest hint that they were about to fire me. He just constantly ignored me in meetings and in person. I always thought that he must be busy but I never saw this coming. While I was working there , some of my team members constantly demeaned me for my college but my manger used to support me. Until when the day came, when he knew that now with the H1B Visa I'll switch job, he betrayed me. For the month I was away he always said that he'll support me, I didn't have the slightest idea he would change like this. Given how they treat people in the team 6 people have already left the AI team. I still put up with the hopes of getting my Visa. But it all got ruined.

Now I have 1 year left on my OPT and only 1 H1B visa lottery chance and less than 75 days to find a new job. With all this news of increasing wage brackets and banning H1B visas for 3 years I feel hopeless. I really want to quit and go back to my country.

It's been a week since all of this happened. But I am staying strong and have been applying and interviewing, I have got a few calls within this short time so that gave me a little hope but it's very difficult to crack these interviews, they expect a lot of experience. I am staying strong as long as I can but yeah I keep getting into this sad phase where I think that I've been betrayed and used. Any help and support would be appreciated.


