# https://www.reddit.com/r/USVisas/comments/1socshn/b1b2_interview_experience_australia/

Just wanted to share my experience to help others. I arrived 45 mins early, but they let me through anyway, and I just interviewed early. I put my bag through the scanner and then walked through the metal detector, they took my cellphone and rain jacket, and then I went through another door. A lady scanned my fingers and my passport, and then I waited in line. It's similar to a bank teller. You line up, and then when a teller opens up the front at the front of the line goes to that counter. I tried to listen to other interviews so I could gauge what type of questions they might ask, but the interviews really are so individual, and each officer conversed in different ways. While you can't pick who you want to be interviewed, I quickly figured out who the nicest officer was and prayed I would get him while in line, and then I did :)

My interview was very casual and didn't follow the standard questioning I see on here. It went something similar to this.

Officer: "Hello :) can I please see your passport :)"
Me: "yes :) here it is :)"
Officer: "oh cool, I see you've been to X country, how was that? I've always wanted to go"
Me: told him about the travels and asked him if hes been
Officer: "no I've actually only travelled USA, I did X trip and went to X states"
then we went back and forth about some cool hikes in USA

It was a very casual conversation rather than an interview. The topics he asked me about were:

Did I have any family in USA

Did I have a boyfriend there

Do I have children

Do I own a house

Do I have a boyfriend in Australia

He asked about my previous jobs, but I think it was more curiosity as I had some cool jobs over my life. He didn't seem to need to know about my current role.

He asked if I had any intention to immigrate

He asked what hikes I wanted to do in the USA and then told me the hikes he's done.

The things I think helped me: I am confident but soft-natured, smiley and well spoken. I have a huge travel history - my passport has about 80+ stamps in it. I have previously travelled to America many times and always left on time. I live with my parents and have siblings and nephews. I think he could really sense how genuine I was, as it didn't feel like an interrogation. It felt like an American wanting to hear about myself, and they were excited for me to see more of America.

My tips are: watch the YouTube videos from ex-officers, so you have an understanding of this process. Dress nicely and carry a clear holder with a few papers they might want (mine didn't ask to see, but it shows you are prepared). Answer well! They don't want short yes or no answers; they want information so they can form a picture of you and your trip - this makes their job easier, and you have nothing to hide. It might have just been the consulate I went too but every officer looked happy and like they enjoyed their job.

Sadly, I did see 1 person get declined - he was a very sweet, nicely dressed older man wanting to go on the cruise. I couldn't hear very well, but I think he didn't understand the process or applied for the wrong visa. While it didn't affect me before my interview, it was very hard to watch because I thought that if he had only just watched a few YouTube videos from ex-officers, I'm sure he would have done well in his interview. The older generation may not know that help exists online.